.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Dag-Erling Coïdan Smørgrav
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 15, 2016
.Dt AIO 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm aio
.Nd asynchronous I/O
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
facility provides system calls for asynchronous I/O.
It is included in all kernels;
however, asynchronous I/O operations are only enabled on certain file
types by default.
Asynchronous I/O operations for other file types may block an AIO daemon
resulting in process and/or system hangs.
Asynchronous I/O operations can be enabled for all file types by setting
the
.Va vfs.aio.enable_unsafe
sysctl node to a non-zero value.
.Pp
Asynchronous I/O operations on sockets and raw disk devices do not block
and are enabled by default.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr aio_cancel 2 ,
.Xr aio_error 2 ,
.Xr aio_read 2 ,
.Xr aio_return 2 ,
.Xr aio_suspend 2 ,
.Xr aio_waitcomplete 2 ,
.Xr aio_write 2 ,
.Xr lio_listio 2
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
facility appeared as a kernel option in
.Fx 3.0 .
The
.Nm
kernel module appeared in
.Fx 5.0 .
The
.Nm
facility was integrated into all kernels in
.Fx 11.0 .
